What is verification?

Verification is a process for confirming the accuracy of the data reported on the FAFSA through the review of supporting documentation. The U.S. Department of Education selects some FAFSAs for verification, while other FAFSAs may be selected for verification by the institution. Students may be selected for verification randomly or because the data provided on the FAFSA was incomplete or inconsistent.

What do I do if my FAFSA is selected for verification?
If your FAFSA is selected for verification, you will be notified on your Student Aid Report (SAR), as well as by our office. We will communicate with you, by mail or UT Dallas email, if additional documentation is needed to complete the verification process. We will send you a list of information needed to complete the verification process. You may also find the list of requested documents by reviewing the To Do List in your Orion Student Center.

How do I submit my documents?
You may submit your documents by email attachment (PDF format preferred) to financial-aid@utdallas.edu. You may fax your documents to 972-883-6803. You may also submit documents to our office in person, by bringing them to the first floor of the Student Services Building during business hours.

What happens after I submit my verification documents?
After we have received all requested documents, we will review the information submitted and compare it with the data you reported on your FAFSA. Continue to monitor your UT Dallas email account after you have submitted documents. This is how we will contact you if additional clarification and/or documentation is needed. As part of the verification process, we may correct information on your FAFSA based on the documentation that you submit.

How long does verification take?
The average processing time for verification is two to three weeks from the date we receive all of the requested documents.

What kind of documentation is required if my FAFSA is selected for verification?
The Department of Education tells us what documents we are required to request and review as part of the verification process. The requested documentation can include tax information, verification worksheets, proof of high school completion, and/or other documents that may be used to confirm the information reported on the FAFSA. 

Tax Information

There are two ways to submit a copy of your tax information to our office for the verification process. The first way to do this is to return to the FAFSA website and use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) to transfer your or your parent’s tax information directly from the IRS.
If you are unable to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool and you have been selected for verification, you will need to obtain a Tax Return Transcript from the IRS. This can be done online at www.irs.gov, by calling 800-908-9946, or by completing and submitting IRS Form 4506-T to the IRS by fax or by mail.

Tax Information for Special Cases
Certain tax-filers may be unable to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool or obtain a Tax Return Transcript from the IRS and/or may be required to submit additional or alternate tax documentation for the verification process. Please see the information below for requested verification documentation in these special cases.

Married Filing Separate Returns: If you or your parents were married as of the date of completing the FAFSA but filed a separate return from your/their spouse in the tax year used on the FAFSA, submit:

A copy of the IRS Tax Return Transcript for both tax-filers

Joint Return Filed, No Longer Married: If you or your parents filed a joint return for the tax year used on the FASFA but were no longer married as of the day the FASFA was completed, submit:

A copy of the IRS Tax Return Transcript
A copy of the IRS Form W-2 for you/the parent listed on the FAFSA

Amended Tax Returns: If you or your parent filed an amended tax return for the tax year used on the FAFSA, submit:

A copy of the IRS Tax Return Transcript
A signed copy of the IRS Form 1040X that was filed with the IRS

Filers of Non-U.S. Tax Returns: If you or your parent filed a tax return in another country for the tax year used on the FAFSA, submit:

A signed copy of the foreign tax return or the tax return transcript that is translated into English and has the monetary amounts converted into U.S. dollars

Victims of Tax-Related Identity Theft: If you or your parent was a victim of tax-related identity theft for the tax years used on the FAFSA, submit:

A copy of the IRS Tax Return Database View (TRDBV), obtained by calling the IRS’s Identity Protection Specialized Unit (IPSU) at 800-908-4490
A signed statement from the tax-filer indicating that they were a victim of tax-related identify theft and that the IRS has been made aware

Tax Filing Extension: If you or your parent has filed an extension with the IRS beyond the automatic six-month extension period for the tax year used on the FASFA, submit:

A copy of IRS Form 4868
A copy of the IRS’s approval of an extension beyond the automatic six-month extension period
IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter
Copies of W-2s for the tax year or, for a self-employed person, a signed statement certifying the Adjusted Gross Income and Taxes Paid

Verification Worksheets
We may request verification worksheets from you to verify your/your parent’s household size, the number of household members in college, or to confirm that you or your parent did not and will not file a tax return.  We will send a worksheet containing the requested information to your UT Dallas email address when you are selected for verification. Copies of the verification worksheets can also be found on our forms page.  Be sure to complete the form(s) for the appropriate aid year and to sign the form(s) with handwritten signature(s). We cannot accept typed signatures on verification documents.

What is the deadline for submitting verification documents?
Verification document submissions are accepted throughout the aid year. However, it is in your best interest to submit your documents as soon as possible. We will not offer you financial aid until the verification process has been completed.
Please note that it is possible to be selected for verification after you have been offered financial aid or after financial aid has been applied or disbursed to your account. When this happens you have 30 days to provide the requested documents. We may cancel the financial aid offered or disbursed if the requested materials are not submitted within this time frame. If you are unable to submit your documents by the 30-day deadline, please contact your financial aid counselor to request an extension.

 

 
 

