To check the status of a refund, please see Bursar Office – Refunds
Information regarding the process of refunding financial aid to students and parents can be found at Bursar Office – Refunds.
Most financial aid programs are disbursed to your student account in the Bursar’s Office. The Bursar will apply the funds to pay UT Dallas charges first (tuition, fees, housing and meal plan). After those charges are paid, any remaining funds will be sent to you in the form of a refund.
We begin disbursing financial aid on or near the first day of the term. The disbursement of your financial aid could be delayed due to one of the following reasons:

Your current enrollment status does not match the enrollment status we used to award your financial aid.

Your original financial aid offer letter or email included the enrollment status we used to award your financial aid. If your enrollment status for the term does not match this enrollment status, please submit an Hours Adjustment Form.

You are not meeting the financial aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements.

Your SAP status was determined at the end of your last term enrolled at UT Dallas. Students placed on financial aid suspension are notified via their UTD email.

You have an outstanding financial aid To Do List item in Orion.

Required financial aid documents will appear in your To Do List in Orion.  The Office of Financial Aid also sends To Do List reminders to your UTD email.

You can check to see if your financial aid has been disbursed at EZPay.
You should sign up for direct deposit via EZPay. When a refund from your student account is available, it will be deposited to the bank account you have provided. If you do not sign up for direct deposit, the refund will be issued via paper check, which is mailed to your (the student’s) address on file. If you are receiving funds from a parent PLUS loan, the refund will be sent by paper check to the parent borrowing the loan.
If you need your anticipated refund of financial aid funds to pay for books and supplies, it is possible to obtain a book voucher from us. More information regarding the book voucher.
If you are on warning or probation with the Office of Financial Aid in regards to your academic progress, the disbursement of your financial aid may be delayed until your grades from the previous term have been evaluated.
The financial aid award notice we send you contains information regarding your anticipated enrollment. For example, it indicates if the financial aid awarded is based on your enrollment as a full-time, three-quarter time, half-time, or less than half-time student. If your actual enrollment is different from how your financial aid was awarded, the funds will not be released to the Bursar’s Office. You can review the award notice we sent you in Orion under “communications”. You can request that we adjust your aid for your planned enrollment by completing the Hours Adjustment Form found on our forms page.
You need to be enrolled at UT Dallas in at least 6 hours as an undergraduate student and 5 hours as a graduate student for most institutional, state, and/or loan aid to be disbursed. If you are enrolled in less than 6 hours and you are eligible for the Pell Grant program, you may still be eligible to receive this grant.
Your financial aid award is based on your enrollment in classes at UT Dallas. If you are registered for classes at another institution, these classes do not apply to your financial aid eligibility at UT Dallas.

 

 
 

