Federal Forms
TitleDescriptionSpring Certification RequestThis is the online certification request form. If you are utilizing federal VA benefits and have registered for courses, please fill out this form for the Spring 2023 term. Fall Certification Request 
This is the online certification request form. If you are utilizing federal VA benefits and have registered for courses, please fill out this form for the Fall 2022 term.
 Summer Certification Request 
This is the online certification request form. If you are utilizing federal VA benefits and have registered for courses, please fill out this form for the Summer 2022 term.
 Veterans Online Application 
Veterans, service members, reservists, and spouses/dependents of a “service connected” disabled or deceased veteran may use VONAPP.
If you prefer (or you are using a benefit type that cannot be filed through VONAPP), electronic copies can be found at the following links for the various benefit types as well as instructions on submitting the form directly to the VA.
 VA Form 22-1990 
For veterans who have never used benefits before or who are changing benefit types

VA Form 22-1990E
 Application for dependents and/or spouses using Post 9/11 GI Bill® benefits (Chapter 33)  VA Form 22-1995 
For any veteran who is transferring from another institution where he/she used benefits
 VA Form 22-5490 
For dependents who have never applied for benefits under the Dependents Education Assistance Program (Chapter 35)
 VA Form 22-5495 
For dependents who have previously used the Dependents Education Assistance Program (Chapter 35) at another institution

Hazlewood Forms
TitleDescription Texas Hazlewood Act Exemption Veteran Consent Form 
This form is used by Parent Veterans to provide consent for their dependents to use the Hazlewood Act Exemption. Only complete this form if instructed to do so.
 Texas Hazlewood Act Exemption Application 
For any veteran, dependent, or spouse who wishes to apply for the Hazlewood Act Exemption. Use this application to attach (upload) your supporting documents.
 Request a DD214 
Request a copy of the veteran’s DD214 to verify the veteran’s place of entry, home of record at the time of entry, character of service, length of service, and date of service.
 Request a COE 
Request to verify eligibility for the veteran’s, dependent’s, or spouse’s federal education benefits. Note: if the veteran’s final discharge is prior to 9/11/2001, the certificate of eligibility is not required.
 Hazlewood Database Registration 
To comply with the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), all applicants (veterans, dependents, and/or spouses) must register with the Hazlewood online database.
 2022-2023 Texas Hazlewood Act Exemption Application for Continued Enrollment 
Use this form to renew the Hazlewood Act Exemption for the 2022-2023 academic year. Note: You only need to apply for the Hazlewood Act Exemption once per academic year. The 2022-2023 Continued enrollment application covers the Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023 semesters for students who have continuously used the Hazlewood Act Exemption at UTD. You must use the Hazlewood Act Exemption Application if you have had a break in your enrollment, or if you are applying to use the Hazlewood Act Exemption for the first time at UTD.

 

 
 

