What is UT Dallas’ FAFSA school code?
Our school code is 009741.

Do I have to complete a new FAFSA every year?
Yes. Please visit the Deadlines page for priority deadline information.

Do I need to be admitted before I can apply for financial aid?
You may complete a FAFSA at any time; however, we cannot process an award until you are officially admitted to UT Dallas.

May I transfer my financial aid from my old school to UT Dallas?
While your financial aid awards (grants, loans, etc.) do not transfer from one school to another, almost all schools in the United States use the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as the application for financial aid.  You can visit studentaid.gov and correct your FAFSA to include UT Dallas (school code 009741). UT Dallas must receive the results of your FAFSA to determine your eligibility for financial aid.

Can I receive financial aid at two schools at the same time?
A: Federal financial aid programs, except for the Pell Grant, do not have a restriction on receiving funds at more than one school at a time. These programs have a maximum that can be awarded to an individual student in a year. You are responsible for notifying both schools of what you are receiving aid at the other school. You may not receive more than the annual or aggregate maximum from any financial aid program.

Do you offer financial aid during the summer? Will I have to complete a new FAFSA?
Students should complete a summer financial aid application to be awarded for summer. This form becomes available in March each year. Instructions on how to access the Summer Application for Financial Aid are available through our forms page. If you completed a FAFSA for the fall and/or spring semester preceding the summer, you do not need to complete another FAFSA for the summer.

How do I apply for a Pell Grant and other types of financial aid?
You must complete a FAFSA. UT Dallas does not require any other type of application for financial aid, except for the summer term.

My parents don’t claim me on their tax return or pay any of my expenses. Why do I have to include their income on my FAFSA?
The law governing the federal student aid programs is based on the premise that the family is the first source of your support. The law provides several criteria that determine if you are considered independent of your parents for financial aid eligibility. Note: reaching the age of 18 or 21 or living apart from your parents does not affect your dependency status. To assist you with determining your status, visit FSA’s topic on Dependency Status.

My parents do not file taxes, how can I fill out my FAFSA?
There is a section on the FAFSA where your parents can select the “Will Not File” option. They will then be directed to the wages/earnings question where they can indicate how much they earned.

My parents work out of the country. They don’t file U.S. tax returns. How do I indicate that on my FAFSA?
If your parents filed a foreign return, they will convert all figures to U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate that is in effect the day they complete the FAFSA. Daily exchange rates can be viewed at CNN.com, as well as others available on the internet.

Who can I include in my household size? May I include my significant other?
Independent students may only include their spouse and/or dependents for whom they provide more than 50 percent support during the year. Dependent students must include their parents and any persons for whom their parents provide more than 50 percent support during the year.

I completed my FAFSA over four weeks ago, but haven’t heard anything from UT Dallas. What should I do?
When we receive the results of the FAFSA we send an email letting you know that we have it. If you have not yet received this email, and you have been admitted to UT Dallas, you can visit fafsa.gov to check to see if you listed our school code (009741) on your FAFSA. If you listed UT Dallas and you have been admitted you should contact our office at financial-aid@utdallas.edu to request that we check your application’s status.

I don’t think my parents will be approved for a PLUS loan. What other options do I have?
If your parent applies for and is denied a PLUS loan you may be able to borrow additional unsubsidized Direct Loan funds. You may also visit our Private Education Loans page for information on private educational loans.

Do I have to accept my loans again for the spring?
If, at the beginning of the school year, you accepted your loans for the fall and spring semesters, you do not need to accept them again.

My lender told me they sent my loan funds to you. Why haven’t you received them?
It may take up to three business days for UT Dallas to receive electronic loan funds from lenders. If the funds are not disbursed at that point, you should contact us. Paper checks may take longer. You will be notified via your UT Dallas email account when we receive those funds.

When should I expect to receive my refund?
Please see the Bursar’s Office Refunds page for information.

Where can I get information on the loans that I have borrowed?
All of your federal loan information can be obtained by visiting the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS).

I need to purchase books, but my financial aid has not been disbursed yet. What should I do?
If your financial aid application is complete and your funds have not disbursed by the first day of classes, you may be eligible for an on-campus book voucher. Book vouchers can be obtained at the Office of Financial Aid in the Student Services Building (SSB). For more information on who qualifies, please see our Book Voucher Policy.

What is considered a special circumstance?
A special circumstance is an event that causes a loss of/significant reduction in income or extremely high medical bills not paid by insurance. Special circumstance forms can be found on our Forms page.

What types of situations qualify for a Dependency Override?
Please see the cover sheet of the Dependency Override Request form on our Forms page.

 

 
 

