Veteran Exemptions and Waivers
Veteran Benefits Forms

The purpose of this program is to encourage nurses to serve as Clinical Nurse Preceptors by providing a partial exemption from tuition to them and/or their children.
There are two groups of students who can apply for this exemption:

Clinical Preceptors who:

Are residents of Texas.
Are registered nurses.
Serve, on an average, at least one day per week under a written preceptor agreement with an undergraduate professional nursing program as a clinical preceptor for students enrolled in the program for:

The time period the program conducts clinicals during the semester or other academic term for which the exemption is sought; or
The time period the program conducts clinicals during a semester or other academic term that ended less than one year prior to the beginning of the semester or term in which the exemption is to be used.

Persons who:

Are residents of Texas.
Have not been granted a baccalaureate degree.
Are children of a Clinical Preceptor who serves, on an average, at least one day per week under a written preceptor agreement with an undergraduate professional nursing program as a clinical preceptor for students enrolled in the program for:

The time period the program conducts clinicals during the semester or other academic term for which the exemption is sought; or
The time period the program conducts clinicals during a semester or other academic term that ended less than one year prior to the beginning of the semester or term in which the exemption is to be used.

Additionally, undergraduate students must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA and must not be subject to the fee for excessive hours, as determined by the Office of the Registrar.
As the preceptor, you may receive up to $500 or actual tuition, whichever is less, for as long as you meet program requirements. As the child of a preceptor, you may receive $500 or actual tuition charges, whichever is less, for up to 10 semesters or until you receive your bachelor’s degree. Summer terms of less than nine weeks count as half a regular semester.
Complete the Preceptor Exemption application form and submit it to the Office of Financial Aid along with written proof of eligibility from the nursing department through which the preceptor has (or had) a written preceptor agreement.