Veteran Readiness & Employment benefits (Chapter 31) are available to veterans who are at least 10% disabled, apply for Veteran Readiness & Employment Services, and have received, or will receive, a discharge that is not dishonorable.
Service members can receive this benefit only by meeting with a Vocational Rehabilitation counselor and applying.
Use the UT Dallas Veterans Fact Sheet to upload your documents..
New Students – 1st Semester Using Benefits at UT Dallas
Step One 
Submit the necessary documentation to UT Dallas:

Electronic Approval Document (formerly known as VA Form 22-1905), sent to UTD from your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor/Case Manager, with valid enrollment dates
Member-4 Copy of DD214
Official Academic Degree Plan – Your degree plan is a list of all classes that you must take to graduate with your degree. Your current semester’s classes must be included on the degree plan you submit to our office. You can get your degree plan from your academic advisor. Please do NOT upload your flowchart, enrollment verification document, Orion class schedule, schedule planner document or unofficial transcript.
Official copy of your military transcript submitted to the Office of Admission and Enrollment

Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, & Navy
Air Force

UT Dallas Veterans Fact SheetClick the button below for the semester that you have been admitted to UTD:

Fall 2022
Spring 2023

Step Two
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.

Renewal Certification (Continuing Students) – Required EACH semester
Step One 

Register for your classes.
Turn in an online certification form; instructions can be found here.
Electronic Approval Document (formerly known as VA Form 22-1905), sent to UTD from your Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor/Case Manager with valid enrollment dates; if your Approval Document has expired, you must ask for your counselor to send a new one to UTD.

Step Two 
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.
Refer to instructions to check the status of the online certification form.

 

 
 

