What is the deadline to apply for Hazlewood?
The priority deadline for submitting all required documentation is July 15 for the upcoming academic year. If we have received all required forms by the priority deadline, the exemption will be in place before the Full Term Census Day as noted in the Academic Calendar. We continue to process late applications in the order they are received. However, applicants who submit documentation after the start of the term are strongly encouraged to consider making alternate payment arrangements with the Bursar’s Office in order to meet the payment deadline. Late submission of documents may result in late fees and/or cancelled enrollment. Applications and all supporting documentation may be submitted no later than the last day of class for any given term. Hazlewood is not retroactive to prior terms.

Is there a minimum academic requirement?
All undergraduate and graduate Hazlewood recipients (Veteran, Legacy, and Dependent of 100% Disabled Veteran) must meet cumulative GPA requirements as defined by the Office of Financial Aid. Additionally, undergraduate students must not have completed a number of semester credit hours that is considered to be excessive as outlined in Texas Education Code 54.014. Legacy Act students must be enrolled in a degree program and may not exempt more than the degree plan maximum hours. Hazlewood Exemption benefits will not be processed for subsequent terms until the previous term’s academic progress has been reviewed and continuing program eligibility has been verified.
The above GPA requirements are not applicable to the children and spouses of a MIA, KIA, or service-connected deceased Veteran.

How many hours do I need to enroll in to receive the Hazlewood Exemption?
There is no minimum course load required to receive the Hazlewood Exemption; however, if you are eligible, there are minimum requirements for both financial aid and federal VA benefits.

What happens if I decide to drop or withdraw from a course while receiving the Hazlewood Exemption?
If you drop a course before Census Day but remain enrolled in at least one other course, the hours related to the dropped course will not be charged toward your Hazlewood eligibility. However, if you drop or withdraw from a course(s) after Census Day, the hours related to the course(s) dropped will be deducted from your Hazlewood eligibility. If you withdraw from all courses after the final day to receive a 100% refund, you will be charged Hazlewood hours based on the Payment & Refund Calendar.
Please note, dropping or withdrawing from a course may also affect your eligibility for financial aid and/or federal VA benefits.

Is there an age limit for the Hazlewood Exemption?
In order to maintain eligibility for the Legacy Program under the Hazlewood Exemption, a student must be 25 years or younger on the first day of the term for which the exemption is claimed (unless granted an extension due to a qualifying illness or debilitating condition). There is no age limit for a veteran or for the spouse or child of a veteran who was 100% disabled or deceased as a result of service-related injury or illness.

Are any programs excluded from the Hazlewood Exemption at UT Dallas?
Executive education and certain certificate programs are not eligible for the Hazlewood exemption for the reason that the school does not receive state formula funding (tax support) for these programs.

What is a Certificate of Eligibility for Federal GI Bill benefits (COE) and how do I get one?
A Certificate of Eligibility (COE) is an official correspondence from the VA stating your federal education benefits status. The certificate will state whether you have exhausted your eligibility for GI Bill benefits (Chapters 31, 33 [Post-9/11]). COE’s may be obtained by completing a Online GI Bill® Application or by calling 1-888-GI-Bill-1.

I used the Hazlewood Exemption at another school. Do I need to complete another application?
Yes. State law requires all schools to maintain their own Hazlewood exemption records. Each school also is required to verify your attempted Hazlewood hours from all previously attended institutions.

Can I receive both Hazlewood and VA Benefits?
A student may use Chapter 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill) or Chapter 31 (Vocational Rehabilitation) with Hazlewood during the same term if the combination of benefits does not exceed the total amount of tuition and fees. In either case, Hazlewood benefits may cover eligible tuition and fees that are not covered by Ch. 33 or Ch. 31 tuition and fees payments. A student may receive the full amount of federal education benefits issued under Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB, Chapter 30 & Chapter 1606), Reserve Educational Assistance Program (REAP, Chapter 1607), or Post Vietnam Era Veterans’ Educational Assistance Program (VEAP, Chapter 32) in conjunction with Hazlewood.

Can I receive both Hazlewood and other forms of financial aid?
While the Hazlewood exemption may be used in conjunction with some other forms of financial aid, such as federal grants, outside scholarships, loans, and work-study, it must fit within your Cost of Attendance (COA) and contribute to your financial need, if applicable. Certain institutional scholarship and grant funds (such as the Educational Assistance Grant) are intended for tuition and fees only. Consequently, those funds may not be received in addition to the Hazlewood Exemption. If financial aid is already disbursed or awarded at the time your Hazlewood exemption is approved, adjustments may be made to your financial aid to allow for the exemption. Additionally, exemption amounts will be adjusted to allow for any federal VA education (Post-9/11 GI Bill) benefits that are received.

Where can I find veteran services other than Hazlewood at the university?
UT Dallas provides a full service Military and Veteran Center with resources for veterans, reservists, eligible dependents, and active duty military students.

Where can I learn more about the Hazlewood Act?
We encourage you to review the program guidance found on the Texas Veterans Commission’s website. Click the FAQ tab for a list of Frequently Asked Questions.

 

 
 

