To be eligible for financial aid, students must make satisfactory academic progress (SAP) based on a qualitative (GPA) and quantitative (completion rate/maximum timeframe) standard. 
Grade Point Average (GPA)

The minimum cumulative GPA requirement for undergraduate students is 2.0.
The minimum cumulative GPA requirement for graduate students is 3.0.

Maximum Time Frame

The undergraduate student maximum time frame for degree completion is 125 percent of the hours required to complete the degree program.
The graduate student maximum time frame for degree completion is 150 percent of the hours required to complete the degree program.

Completion Rate
Students must successfully complete a percentage of all attempted hours that is in line with completing their degree requirements within the overall maximum time frame for a degree program. This is called a pace rate requirement and is evaluated each term. This is calculated by dividing the student’s overall successfully completed hours by the student’s overall attempted hours.
The undergraduate student pace rate requirement is graduated by overall attempted hour ranges. See the following chart.
Undergraduate Pace Rate:
Attempted Hours:Required Completion Rate:0-5850%59-8860%89-12770%128 and above80%
The graduate student pace rate requirement is a two-thirds completion rate.
Incompletes (I), failing grades (F), and academic/non-academic withdrawals (W, WP, WF) count as hours attempted but not completed.
Transfer credit (including dual credits and AP credits) applied toward a student’s program counts in the maximum time frame calculation. Transfer credit hours accepted by UT Dallas as credit are counted as attempted and completed hours in the pace rate calculation. A student’s transfer grade point average does not count toward the UT Dallas term or cumulative GPA.
Repeated courses count as attempted hours. The grade from the first attempt will not be used in computing a student’s GPA. All further repeats will be used in computing the student’s cumulative GPA.
Students must meet both the qualitative and quantitative requirements to remain in good standing. It is expected that students be continually aware of their progress. Academic progress will be reviewed at the end of each term. All terms will be reviewed, including those for which financial aid was not requested.
Failure to Meet Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards
In these provisions, warning, suspension, or probation refers only to financial aid standards of academic progress. Notices of financial aid warning, suspension, and probation will be sent via email to students’ UT Dallas email address.
Student records will be reviewed at the end of each term. The first time a student fails to meet the minimum GPA or completion rate required for the standards of academic progress, he or she will be placed on a financial aid warning status for the next term of enrollment. While financial aid will be provided for students in a warning status, the student must make satisfactory progress to remain eligible for aid. A student on warning status who fails to meet the standards of academic progress will be placed on suspension for the next term of enrollment and will not be eligible for financial aid. 
Students on financial aid suspension due to their failure to meet the minimum GPA or completion rate requirements may qualify for reinstatement of their financial aid eligibility by meeting the requirements of the satisfactory academic progress policy for financial aid in the next or a future term.  A student who successfully meets the requirements for reinstatement will be placed on financial aid probation and will be eligible to receive financial aid for the probation term. Two consecutive terms of meeting the standards of academic progress will place the student back in good standing.  A student who has reached or exceeded his or her maximum time-frame will be placed on suspension and is not eligible for additional financial aid.
Please note that, as of fall 2014, per the Texas Education Code, Sections 54.2001 and 54.2002, in order to continue to qualify for certain state exemptions and/or waivers, students must maintain a minimum grade point average. Undergraduate students in receipt of such exemptions must also not violate the state’s excessive hours rule as defined in Section 54.014 of the Texas Education Code. The review of eligibility for state exemptions and waivers is performed on a term basis and does not have a warning or probation term. Eligibility is determined on a term by term basis, based on current cumulative GPA and excessive hours status. Students who have extenuating circumstances may appeal using the appeal process as detailed below.
Appeal Process
Students who have extenuating circumstances may appeal a financial aid suspension by submitting a Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal to the Office of Financial Aid. Appeal cover sheets are available on our forms page as well as in the Office of Financial Aid. The Financial Aid Appeals Committee will review the petition and will contact the student when a decision has been made. The decision of the Financial Aid Appeals Committee is final.

 

 
 

