The Montgomery GI Bill® for Selected Reserve (Chapter 1606) provides education and training benefits to eligible members of the Selected Reserve. Selected Reserve includes the Air Force Reserve, Army Reserve, Coast Guard Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, the Army National Guard, and the Air National Guard. Eligibility for this program is determined by the Selected Reserve components, and the VA makes payments for the program. Eligibility is for up to 36 months of benefits but typically ends on the day the reservist leaves the Selected Reserve.
For more information regarding this benefit, visit the VA website. 
Use the UT Dallas Veterans Fact Sheet to upload your documents.
New Students – 1st Semester Using Benefits at UT Dallas
Step One 
Submit the necessary documentation to UT Dallas:

Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE) or Certificate of Eligibility
Official Academic Degree Plan – Your degree plan is a list of all classes that you must take to graduate with your degree. Your current semester’s classes must be included on the degree plan you submit to our office. You can get your degree plan from your academic advisor. Please do NOT upload your flowchart, enrollment verification document, Orion class schedule, schedule planner document or unofficial transcript.
Member 4 Copy of DD214
Official copy of your military transcript submitted to the Office of Admission and Enrollment (NOT required for dependents who are using transferred benefits)

Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, & Navy
Air Force

UT Dallas Veterans Fact SheetClick the button below for the semester that you have been admitted to UTD:

Fall 2022
Spring 2023

Step Two
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.

Renewal Certification (Continuing Students) – Required EACH semester
Step One

Register for your classes.
Turn in an online certification form.

Step Two 
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.
Refer to instructions to check the status of the online certification form.

Additional Resources
Current Payment Rates

 

 
 

