
The University of Texas at Dallas | Office of Financial Aid | 800 W Campbell Rd ROC22 | Richardson, TX 75080p 972-883-2941 | f 972-883-6803 | financial-aid@utdallas.edu
Towards EXcellence, Access & Success (TEXAS) Grant Statement of Eligibility
Students who have been offered TEXAS Grant at UT Dallas for the first time must provide the Office of Financial Aid with a TEXAS Grant Statement of Eligibility prior to receiving the grant. The steps for submitting the Statement of Eligibility are as follows:

Setup your NetID and Password (http://netid.utdallas.edu) using your UTD-ID (ten-digit number provided at the bottom of your admission letter) and birthdate.
Log in to Galaxy (https://galaxy.utdallas.edu), then select either “Applicant Center” or “Orion Student Center.” Click on the Tasks tile and under “To Do List,” select “TEXAS Grant Statement of Eligibility.”
The TEXAS Grant Statement of Eligibility Task consists of these steps:

Carefully review the program eligibility information displayed on your screen.
Select “Yes” or “No” in order to answer the eligibility question and then “Next”.
Click “Submit” to complete the TEXAS Grant Statement of Eligibility.

If you have any questions about this process, please contact the Office of Financial Aid at financial-aid@utdallas.edu or at 972-883-2941.
TEXAS Grant Renewal Requirements
In order to receive the TEXAS Grant in subsequent years after being awarded an initial award, you must:

Be enrolled for at least nine credit hours (please contact your financial aid counselor if you are in your graduating semester and will be registered for less than nine credit hours).
Meet UT Dallas’ Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements at the end of the first year in the program.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.5 on a 4.0 scale and complete at least 24 semester credit hours per year at the end of the second year in the program or in subsequent years.
Demonstrate financial need.

Students entering the program from high school who continue in college and who meet program academic standards can receive awards for up to 150 semester credit hours, until they receive a bachelor’s degree, or for five years if enrolled in a four-year degree plan, whichever comes first.
Students entering the program with an associate’s degree who continue in college and who meet program academic standards can receive awards for up to 90 semester credit hours, until they receive a bachelor’s degree, or for three years if enrolled in a four-year degree plan, whichever comes first.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION UNIVERSITY

 

 
 

