The Montgomery GI Bill® Active Duty (Chapter 30) provides up to 36 months of educational benefits to service members with at least two years of active duty. This benefit is typically payable for 10 years following a service member’s release from active duty.
For more information regarding benefits available under this program, visit the GI Bill® website.
Use the UT Dallas Veterans Fact Sheet to upload your documents.
New Students – 1st Semester Using Benefits at UT Dallas
Step One 
To apply for or transfer benefits:

Visit the VA website and follow the directions carefully.

Step Two 
Submit the necessary documentation to UT Dallas:

VA Certificate of Eligibility
Official Academic Degree Plan – Your degree plan is a list of all classes that you must take to graduate with your degree. Your current semester’s classes must be included on the degree plan you submit to our office. You can get your degree plan from your academic advisor. Please do NOT upload your flowchart, enrollment verification document, Orion class schedule, schedule planner document or unofficial transcript.
Member 4 Copy of DD214
Official copy of your military transcript submitted to the Office of Admission and Enrollment

Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, & Navy
Air Force

UT Dallas Veterans Fact SheetClick the button below for the semester that you have been admitted to UTD:

Fall 2022
Spring 2023

Step Three
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.

Renewal Certification (Continuing Students) – Required EACH semester
Step One 

Register for your classes.
Turn in an online certification form.

Step Two 
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.
Refer to instructions to check the status of the online certification form.

Additional Resources
Current Payment Rates
Chapter 30 Pamphlet on VA.gov

 

 
 

