Work-Study 

When you submit a financial aid application to the Office of Financial Aid, you are seeking help with funding your educational expenses. Some forms of funding do not have to be repaid, while student loans require repayment with interest, and work-study requires employment. Exemptions, waivers, and veterans benefits each have application processes outside of the general financial aid application process. The types of aid programs are listed below with more information.
Grants
Grants do not have to be repaid and are usually awarded based on your Expected Family Contribution (EFC), as calculated using the data on your financial aid application, and your financial need, which is determined by subtracting your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) from your estimated cost of attendance at The University of Texas at Dallas.
Student Loans
Student loans are financial aid that you and, in some cases, your parents borrow and repay with interest. Some student loans require that you demonstrate financial need, which is determined by subtracting your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) from your estimated cost of attendance at UT Dallas, but other student loans do not require you to have financial need. There are three major categories of student loans: federal loans, state loans and private loans.
Work-Study
Work-study is a form of financial aid that allows you to work, usually in an on-campus position, to earn the funding offered to you by the Office of Financial Aid. Work-study requires that you demonstrate financial need, which is determined by subtracting your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) from your estimated cost of attendance at UT Dallas. The program encourages community service work and work related to your course of study.
Exemptions and Waivers
Exemptions
Exemption programs provide funding that effectively exempt you from having to pay a portion or all of your tuition or, in some cases, your tuition and fees. Exemption programs are available for certain eligible students who are classified as Texas residents by the Office of the Registrar.
Waivers
Waiver programs are designed to waive the out-of-state portion of your non-resident tuition. Waiver programs are available for certain eligible students who are not classified as Texas residents by the Office of the Registrar.
Veterans Benefits
Veterans Benefits include federal and state funding programs for eligible veterans and service members and, in some cases, their spouses and dependents. Possible funding ranges from tuition and housing assistance to living allowances.

 

 
 

