Information regarding laptop requirements and recommendations for students can be found at Student Technology Initiative, Office of Information Technology – UT Dallas.
Undergraduate Students
UT Dallas undergraduate students in need of additional loan funding may request a one-time increase to their cost of attendance (COA) for the purchase of a laptop computer.  An increase in the COA allows students or parents of dependent students the opportunity to apply for additional loan funds through the Parent PLUS loan process or the private education loan process. Eligible students who have not already borrowed their annual maximum in Federal Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized Loans may be eligible for an increase in those loans.  If there is room in the student’s current estimated budget, a COA increase may not be necessary.
Graduate Students
UT Dallas graduate students in need of additional loan funding may request a one-time increase to their cost of attendance (COA) for the purchase of a laptop computer.  An increase in the COA allows students the opportunity to apply for additional loan funds through the Graduate PLUS loan process or the private education loan process. Eligible students who have not already borrowed their annual maximum in Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans may be eligible for an increase in those loans.  If there is room in the student’s current estimated budget, a COA increase may not be necessary.
Cost of Attendance Increases
To request an increase to your COA for the purchase of a laptop computer, please email a request to financial-aid@utdallas.edu from your UT Dallas email address. Your email should include your name, net ID, a brief statement requesting the increase for a laptop, and the amount you are requesting. We will contact you via your UT Dallas email address if additional information is required.
Contact us. The Office of Financial Aid is available to answer any questions you may have regarding financial aid available for educational costs.

New for Fall 2021:
Incoming fall 2021 freshman will be eligible for a short-term loan in the amount of $800 toward the purchase of a laptop through the UT Dallas Technology Store.
Additional information and the Laptop Short-Term Loan application will be available in July 2021.
UT Dallas Laptop Short-Term Loans:

are managed through the UT Dallas Bursar Office
are not credit based
charge a 1.25% origination fee
do not charge interest
are paid back within the same semester of enrollment (typically within 90-days and in alignment with tuition payment plans)
are approved based on your status as a new fall 2021 freshman registered in a UT Dallas undergraduate degree program
may only be used toward the purchase of a laptop through the UT Dallas Technology Store

Laptops purchased using the UT Dallas Laptop Short-Term Loan will be available for pick-up from the UT Dallas Technology Store beginning August 17, 2021 . Please check this website in July 2021 for additional details regarding this option and a link to the UT Dallas Laptop Short-Term Loan application.

 

 
 

