Veteran Exemptions and Waivers
Veteran Benefits Forms

The purpose of this program is to allow a nonresident student who receives a qualifying competitive scholarship to enroll and pay the Texas resident tuition and fee rate at a participating public institution in the state of Texas.
Eligible students include nonresident or international students who receive a qualifying competitive institutional scholarship of at least $1,000 and who can confirm  Selective Service registration or exemption from the requirement. Competitive scholarships that may qualify for this waiver must be at least $1,000 (multiple scholarships cannot be combined to meet this minimum); are awarded by an authorized scholarship committee; have publicly available criteria published in advance of application requirements and deadlines; have the selection and funding processes controlled by the University; permit awards to both resident and nonresident students and; have prior approval from the Office of Financial Aid.
Any course for which an institution receives formula funding is eligible (TEC, Title 3, Section 54.2002 (pdf)), even if the course is not included in the student’s program of study. To determine which courses are formula funded, contact the Office of the Registrar.
An eligible student will pay the Texas resident tuition and fee rate during the semester or term covered by the competitive scholarship, not to exceed a 12-month period. There is no automatic renewal or continuation of the waiver. The benefit does not cross academic years. The student can receive the waiver in future semesters if another qualifying competitive scholarship is granted.
The State of Texas limits how many competitive scholarship waivers may be offered, and the awarding of such waivers is at the sole discretion of the University. The Office of Financial Aid processes Competitive Scholarship Waivers.
For further information on the program and how a scholarship meets the competitive criteria, please see the University’s policy on awards qualifying for tuition waivers.