All applicants must meet basic eligibility requirements for federal student aid. These requirements are that you must:

Be a citizen of the United States of America, or be an eligible non-citizen*;
Have a valid Social Security number (unless you are from the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
Be registered with Selective Service, if you are male (you must register between the ages of 18 and 25) or be exempt from registration;
Be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible degree or certificate program;
Maintain satisfactory academic progress;
Sign the statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) stating that:

you are not in default on a federal student loan,
do not owe a refund of a previously awarded federal student aid grant, and
you will use federal student aid only for educational purposes;

Show you are qualified to obtain a college education by:

having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development (GED) certificate,
completing a high school education in a home school setting approved under state law, or
enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the “ability-to-benefit” alternatives;

Be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds.

*Eligible Non-citizens
You are considered an eligible non-citizen if you fall into certain categories, such as the ones listed below:

You are a U.S. national or U.S. permanent resident.
You have an Arrival-Departure Record (I-94) from U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS) showing**:

“Refugee”
“Asylum Granted”
“Cuban-Haitian Entrant,”
“Conditional Entrant” (valid only if issued before April 1, 1980), or
“Parolee” (you must be paroled for at least one year, and you must be able to provide evidence from the USCIS that you are in the United States for other than a temporary purpose with the intention of becoming a U.S. citizen or permanent resident).

You hold a T non-immigrant status (“T-visa”) or your parent holds an T-1 non-immigrant status.
You are a “battered immigrant-qualified alien” or the child of a person designated under the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)**.
You are a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau.

** To qualify for federal student aid, certain eligible non-citizens must be able to provide evidence from the USCIS that they are in the United States for other than a temporary purpose with the intention of becoming a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.
Additional Eligibility Information
Most forms of financial aid have additional program-related requirements.

Most programs require that you demonstrate financial need. Financial need is determined by the information provided on your financial aid application.
With the exception of the Federal Pell Grant, you must be enrolled and attending at least half-time for financial aid eligibility.

For undergraduate students, half-time for financial aid purposes is at least 6 SCH in the fall, spring, and summer term.
For graduate students, half-time for financial aid purposes is at least 5 SCH in the fall and spring term and at least 3 SCH in the summer term.

The classes taken must be:

required for you to complete your degree.
enrolled in by the Census Date for the full-term session.

If you are enrolled in classes required to obtain certification as a teacher in Texas or you are enrolled in undergraduate classes which are prerequisite to being considered for admission into a graduate program, you may be eligible for the federal Direct Loan program.
Classes not considered for financial aid eligibility are:

courses attempted at other colleges and universities.
secondary repeats of a course you have previously passed.

State and Institutional Aid Eligibility
You may be eligible for grants from the state of Texas or UT Dallas even if you are not a U.S. Citizen or an eligible non-citizen. To be eligible for these funds you must:

Be classified as a resident of the state of Texas by the Office of the Registrar (for state aid);
Be enrolled in a degree-seeking program at UT Dallas;
Demonstrate financial need;
Be registered with Selective Service, if you are male (you must register between the ages of 18 and 25) and not otherwise exempt from registration;
Be enrolled at least half-time; and
Maintain satisfactory academic progress.

 

 
 

