The Post 9/11 GI Bill® (Chapter 33) provides benefits for students who served in the military on active duty for at least 90 aggregate days after September 10, 2001, or if the student was discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days. You must have received an honorable discharge.
This benefit provides up to 36 months of educational benefits, payable for up to 15 years after release from active duty. Some individuals are also eligible to transfer their Chapter 33 benefits to an eligible dependent.
For more information regarding benefits available under this program, visit the GI Bill® website.
UT Dallas will provide a Do Not Drop indicator on your student account if all required documents are received by the published deadlines.  This will prevent your courses from being dropped while we wait on payment from the VA.
Complete certification requests received by the published deadline for the term will be worked in the order they are received.
New Students – 1st Semester Using Benefits at UT Dallas
Step One – to apply for or transfer benefits:

Visit vets.gov and follow the directions carefully.

Step Two – Submit the necessary documentation to UT Dallas using the correct button below:

VA Certificate of Eligibility, dated within one year of the semester for which you are applying.  Our office can certify you without this document, but we cannot protect your courses from being dropped without it on file.
Official Academic Degree Plan – Your degree plan is a list of all classes that you must take to graduate with your degree. Your current semester’s classes must be included on the degree plan you submit to our office. You can get your degree plan from your academic advisor. Please do NOT upload your flowchart, enrollment verification document, Orion class schedule, schedule planner document or unofficial transcript.
Member 4 Copy of DD214 (NOT required for dependents who are using transferred benefits)
Official copy of your military transcript submitted to the Office of Admission and Enrollment (NOT required for dependents who are using transferred benefits)

Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, & Navy
Air Force

UT Dallas Veterans Fact SheetClick the button below for the semester that you

Fall 2022
Spring 2023

Step Three
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.

Renewal Certification (Continuing Students) – Required EACH semester
Step One 

Register for your classes.
Turn in an online certification form.

Step Two 
Check your UT Dallas email address:

Once certified, a notification will be sent ONLY to your UT Dallas email address with your certification information.
Refer to instructions to check the status of the online certification form.

Additional Resources
Monthly Housing Allowance
Books & Supplies Stipend
Transferring Chapter 33 Benefits

 

 
 

