The purpose of this program is to encourage persons employed as firefighters or active members of volunteer fire departments to take college courses designed to help them in their work.
In order to be eligible for the exemption, you must:

Be employed as a paid firefighter by a political subdivision of the state of Texas or be an active member of a volunteer fire department who holds an accredited advanced certification (or the equivalent) under the state Firemen’s and Fire Marshal’s Association of Texas volunteer certification program, OR a Phase V (Firefighter II) certification (or the equivalent) under the Texas Commission of Fire Protection’s voluntary certification program under Section 419.071, Government Code.
Enroll in courses offered as part of a fire science curriculum.

At UT Dallas, the programs that lead to a bachelor of science in public affairs degree, a master of public affairs degree, or a doctor of philosophy in public affairs degree qualify as part of a Fire Science Curriculum.

Enroll in classes for which UT Dallas receives tax support (i.e., a course that does not depend solely on student tuition and fees to cover its costs).

Additionally, undergraduate students must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA and must not be subject to the fee for excessive hours, as determined by the Office of the Registrar. Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 cumulative GPA. To receive continuation awards, a firefighter (paid or volunteer) must meet the Office of Financial Aid’s standards for maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP).
The exemption covers tuition and laboratory fees for courses offered as part of a fire science curriculum. No funds may be used to pay tuition for continuing education classes for which UT Dallas receives no state tax support. The exemption may not be applied to additional tuition charged to an undergraduate student with excess or repeated hours under TEC. 54.014(a) or (f), or the additional tuition charged to a graduate student with excess hours under TEC. 61.059(l)(1) or (2).
To apply for the exemption, provide the Bursar’s Office proof of employment as a paid firefighter, and enroll in the courses of a Fire Science Curriculum.

 

 
 

