The purpose of this program is to provide an immediate waiver of nonresident tuition to an honorably discharged, separated, or retired veteran and his or her spouse and dependent children who move to Texas upon the member’s separation from the military.
In order to be eligible for the waiver, the veteran must:

Be a former member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a former Commissioned Officer of the U.S. Public Health Service.
Be retired or have been honorably discharged.
Have enrolled in a Texas public college or university for any term or semester that begins before the first anniversary of the member’s separation (applicable to the veteran, his or spouse, and/or dependent children).
Have met the following requirements:

At least one year preceding the first day of the term or semester, you must have executed a document with the applicable service branch that is in effect on the first day of the term or semester that (a) indicates the member’s permanent residence address is in Texas and (b) designates Texas as the member’s place of legal residence for income tax purposes.
You must have registered to vote in Texas for the entire year preceding the first day of the term or semester.
You must satisfy at least one of the following:

For the entire year preceding the first day of the term or semester, you must have owned real property in Texas and in that time have not been delinquent in the payment of any taxes on the property
You must have had an automobile registered in Texas for the entire year preceding the first day of the term or semester.
At least one year preceding the first day of the term or semester, you must have executed a will that has not been revoked or superseded indicating that the member is a resident of this state and deposited the will with the county clerk of the county of the member’s residence under Section 71, Texas Probate Code.

This program permits nonresident students to pay tuition and fees at the resident rate. Contact the Veterans Benefits Team to begin the application process. You must provide proof that you meet the program eligibility requirements.

 

 
 

